Edit of readme (#22)
ARMmbed/mbed-os-bluetooth-integration-testsuite: test_suite/README.md

* [ble-cliapp](https://github.com/ARMmbed/ble-cliapp): The RPC server running on
the board.

    > **Note:** This documentation is **not** a reference of `ble-cliapp`. Consult the documentation of that project for more information.  

# Running the tests

## List existing tests

To list tests in the test suite:

```
pytest --collect-only
```

## Run all tests

1. Compile the `ble-cliapp` application for the boards you're using for testing.
1. Flash the application to the boards.
1. Run the command `pytest`.<!--where? In the same location as the mbed compile command?-->

    The terminal displays the executed commands.
1. When all tests have run, the console displays a summary of the results.

## Run specific tests

pytest allows you to run tests in a specific folder or file or individual tests:

* Folder: `pytest <folder name>`
* Test file: `pytest <file path>`
* Test within a file: `pytest <file path>::<test name>`

To use multiple tests cases, test files or test paths, separate them with spaces:

```
pytest <test folder1> <test folder 2> <file path> <file path>::<test name>
```

## Run tests by markers

> <!--"run with" can imply the marker changes the test; "run by" implies selecting tests that have the marker, which I think is the case here-->

Author: ```suggestion

```

Some of the tests has been annotated with a pytest marker:

- `ble41`: Test of Bluetooth 4.1 features.
- `ble42`: Test of Bluetooth 4.2 features.
- `ble50`: Test of Bluetooth 5.0 features.
- `smoketest`: Small set of smoke tests.

To run the test annotated with `marker name`, run the command `pytest -m <marker name>`.

## Select targets

To select specific targets for the test, use the command line

> argument `--platforms=`. To specify multiple platforms, separate them with a comma `,`.<!--this isn't a type - it's a specific board, isn't it?-->

Reviewer: It is not a specific board, but it is a specific target that should be used to run the tests. If two NRF52840_DK and two `DISCO_L475` are connected to the system we don't get to choose which one will be used to run the test but we can select the target used `NRF52840_DK` or `DISCO_L475`.

Author: But again, that's not a type - you can't select all NRF or all disco.

Reviewer: if you pass the argument  `--platforms=NRF52840_DK` the test suite will consider all `NRF52840_DK` connected to your machine to run the test.

Author: So you can have multiples of the same board, but you can't just say "do all NRF boards"

For example, to run tests on `NRF52840_DK`:

```sh
pytest --platforms=NRF52840_DK
```

## Flash targets

> To flash targets with a binary before the test starts, use `--flash=`.<!--do I have to? is that part of the steps you described above for test running? or is it if I have something else I need on the board, and I can skip this test?-->

Reviewer: It is an optional parameter to pass to pytest. It is not mandatory as users will probably flash when the board is compiled with mbed cli.

Author: ```suggestion
If you did not use Mbed CLI to flash the binary to the targets before the test starts, use pytest to do it by passing the parameter `--flash=`.
```

You can define a list of platform/binary pairs using the syntax
`platform:binary`. To specify multiple pairs, separate them with a comma `,`.

> For example, to run tests on `NRF52840_DK` and flash the binary

Author: ```suggestion
For example, to flash the binary and run tests on `NRF52840_DK` 
```

> `ble-cliapp.hex` (already in the working directory):<!--doesn't it first flash and then run the tests?-->

Reviewer: Yes, the steps are flash then run the tests if the `--flash=` flag is provided.

```sh
pytest --flash=NRF52840_DK:ble-cliapp.hex
```

********************************************************************************

# Extending the test suite

> the Mbed OS BLE test suite is built using pytest. We recommend reading the [pytest documentation](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/) to solve problems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Mbed OS BLE test suite is built using pytest. We recommend reading the [pytest documentation](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/) to solve problems
```

not covered by this document.

## Test conventions

To be discovered by pytest:

> - Test files must start with the name `test`.<!--name here, prefix in the next line - are they really different things?-->

Reviewer: Yes they are, both conditions should be met for pytest to discover tests. It first looks at files that starts with the name `test` then inside these files it identify tests function if it begins with `test`.

Author: I meant, "prefix" and "name starts with". Do we really need two different words?

Reviewer: I understand now, we don't need two different words.

Author: ```suggestion
- Test files must start with the prefix `test`.<!--name here, prefix in the next line - are they really different things?-->
```

    board_allocator.release(device)
```

1. The decorator declares a fixture with a function scope, meaning the returned object is destroyed after the function that used it ends.
1. The function prototype accepts a `board_allocator` argument, which pytest automatically resolves to the `board_allocator` fixture.

> 1. A board is allocated and the BLE API is initialised.<!--who does the allocating?-->

Reviewer: The `peripheral` fixture does the allocation calling `board_allocator.allocate('peripheral')`

Author: ```suggestion
1. The peripheral fixture allocates a board and initialises the BLE API.<!--who does the allocating?-->
```

> 1. The device object is returned to the pytest framework using the `yield` keyword.<!--who does the returning?-->

Reviewer: The `peripheral` fixture returns the `device` object.

Author: ```suggestion
1. The peripheral fixture uses the `yield` keyword to return the device object to the pytest framework.
```

> 1. At the end of the fixture scope, the function is reentered and the board is released.<!--who reenters the function and releases the board?-->

Reviewer: Pytest reenters the `peripheral` fixture which continue the execution after the line `yield device`. The `peripheral` fixture then release the board: `board_allocator.release(device)`

Author: ```suggestion
1. pytest reenters the peripheral fixture, which continues the execution after the line yield device. The peripheral fixture then release the board using `board_allocator.release(device)`.
```

## Interacting with devices under test (DUT)

> Boards are passed to the test using the fixture mechanism.<!--devices, boards and targets seem to be used interchangeably-->

Reviewer: Indeed, boards and devices are used interchangeably. Target should be used for family of boards like it is used in the section `Select targets`

Author: We don't use target to mean family - we use it to mean "A destination for a software build, for example an MCU, development board or custom board. Build targets are defined in either targets.json or custom_targets.json. A build (with Mbed CLI, the Online Compiler and Mbed Studio) is always done for a specific target."

And we try not to use device, only board, when talking about hardware.

Reviewer: I think we share the same understanding of what a target is. Build targets can be used on any board that have the characteristics described in the target. That's what I meant by family of boards. Maybe I should have used `class of boards` but it is broad too.   

> And we try not to use device, only board, when talking about hardware.

That doesn't seems to be the case in green tea [documentation](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/v6.3/debug-test/greentea-for-testing-applications.html) where device is used more often than board. The term `Device Under Test` is fairly common when we refer to device validation through testing. It would be nice to unify usage though.

Author: That's because Greentea predates the new vocab guidelines. The problem with Device is that Keil use it to mean something else.
